---
layout: post
title:  "Day 14"
categories: day
events:
    - "Office hours: Nov 16, 4pm at Book Cellar in Lincoln Square"
    - "[Prototype-It Weekend](/events/prototype-it.html)"
    - "Starter Night: Friday, Dec 13 6pm"
links:
    - "[Markdown syntax](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax)"
    - "[Markdown dingus](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/dingus)"
    - "[Dillinger.io](http://dillinger.io/)"
    - "[Draft](http://draftin.com)"
    - "[Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/)"
    - "[How Jekyll works](http://jekyllbootstrap.com/lessons/jekyll-introduction.html)"
screencasts:
---

## Markdown

- Simplified HTML
- Preprocessor turns it into HTML.
- Use the links to the left to play with Markdown.
- Most README files on GitHub are writtein with Markdown. ([Here's an example](https://github.com/tsl-frontend/scaffold/blob/master/README.md). Click the 'RAW' button to see the Markdown code.)

## Jekyll

- Jekyll: a static-site generator
- Lightweight, easy-to-use system for a site with templates
- You define your templates and content locally, compile it locally, and move your compiled directory to a server.
- [How Jekyll works](http://jekyllbootstrap.com/lessons/jekyll-introduction.html)

### Installing Jekyll

- Your computer must already have Ruby installed. Macs already come with Ruby. Windows users can use [RubyInstaller](http://rubyinstaller.org/).
- Open Terminal
- Enter `sudo gem install jekyll`
- If it prompts you for a password, type your system password. You won't be able to see it as you type it.

### Creating a new Jekyll project

- In Terminal, navigate to where you keep your projects
- Type `jekyll new PROJECTNAME`
- Move into the new directory by typing `cd PROJECTNAME`.
- Create the site by typing `jekyll build`
- Your compiled site will go in a new `_site` subdirectory

### Updating your _site directory

- To make Jekyll convenient, we need it to continue to compile the site as we change files.
- To do this, type `jekyll build --watch`.
- This tells Jekyll to rebuild the site every time a file gets changed.
- Try it out! Load your entire PROJECTNAME directory in Sublime Text, and change something. Go back to the Terminal and you'll see a line that tells you it regenerate the page.
- While build is running, you won't be able to type other commands in the same Terinal window. You can hit `command-t` to open a new tab, or `control-c` to make the build stop running.

{% comment %}
### Starting Jekyll server

- `cd` to directory
- `jekyll serve --watch`
- Go to http://0.0.0.0:4000
- But doing this will mess with Sass compilation, so be aware
{% endcomment %}

### Converting an old site to Jekyll

- `cd` to your project directory
- Type `jekyll new --blank --force .`
- You'll need to create a _config.yml file in the root of your project. Populate it [with the text in this Gist](https://gist.github.com/santheo/7470209/raw/a172a027009e32f669d3a951c3306122796f6de2/gistfile1.txt).
- You should also add a `.gitignore` file if you don't have one already. In it, list `_site`. That will prevent your compiled site from being checked into git. (You only need the source files in git — the compiled site can alwasy be regenerated.)

### GitHub Pages

- GitHub Pages are specifically set up to use Jekyll.
- Your GH Pages site actually uses the templates and content, not the compiled `_site` directory.

## Jekyll + Sass

### Configuring Prepros

- Instad of having Prepros watch your root directory, have it just watch your `_site` directory.
- The click the globe icon, and you'll have a running server.

{% comment %}
### Configuring Prepros

- We need to tell Prepros to ignore Markdown files
- Click the settings menu item ([screenshot](http://cl.ly/image/372f422S3v0c))
- Turn off "Auto compile" for Markdown files ([screenshot](http://cl.ly/image/3z0E0Y2l453t))
- Remove your site and re-add it after you do this.

### Configuring Jekyll

- We should also tell Jekyll to ignore `.scss` files and not move them into our `_site` directory.
- First create a separate `scss` folder and move your `.scss` files there.
- Might as well also create a `css` folder. You'll need to update your HTML to reference this folder, of course.
- If you're using Full Compass Support, update your `config.rb` with these two lines:
  - `css_dir = "css"`
  - `sass_dir = "sass"`
- If you're not using Compass, you need to tell Prepros where to output the SCSS file. Choose your file, right-click, select "Change Output", and select the `css` folder.
- But I recommend the `config.rb` route. Gives you more control.
{% endcomment %}

## Command line

### Basic Terminal commands

- `cd` means 'change directory', it's what lets you enter into a folder
- `pwd` will list the directory you're currently in
- Folders and filenames are case sensitive
- 'tab' will autocomplete a folder or filename
- `ls` will list all the files and folders in your current directory
- `open .` will open Finder to display all the files in your current directory
- `cd ..` will navigate you back up a folder
- `cd ~` will take you back to your root folder
- `cmd k` will clear your window
- The up arrow will cycle through all your previously typed commands
- `mkdir _folder-name_` will create a new director/folder
- `touch _file-name_` will create a new file

### Using git and Github in Terminal

- To begin a new Git repository, type `git init` inside of your project folder
- `git status` will tell you if a file is tracked or untracked
- To track files, type `git add -A`. Then type `git commit -m "enter message"`.
- Go to your account on Github.com and create a new repository
- Paste the instructions from **Push an existing repository from the command line** in your project folder, in Terminal.
- Refresh your Github page, and it should have the updated files.

## Homework

- tes!!
