---
layout: post
title:  "Day 13"
categories: day
---

## Guest Speaker: Chris McAvoy
- Wednesday, Nov. 13 at 5 PM
- [Sign up here](http://www.eventbrite.com/event/9249089275) | PW: **TSL**

## Prototype-It Weekend

- Team up with other TSLers, prototype your idea.
- No expectation for building a final product
- Can come with an idea in hand, or join others
- Starts Fri Nov 22nd 6pm
- Ends Sat 23rd 3pm
- TSL will provide Lunch on Saturday and snacks all weekend
- [Sign up here](http://www.eventbrite.com/event/9185292457) | PW: **TSL**

## Starter Night

- Friday, Dec 13 6pm

## Sass

- It's called Sass. Extension is .scss
- SCSS = Sassy CSS.
- Sass a superset of CSS

## Sass features

- Nesting
- Variables
- Importing (@import)
- Color manipulation
- Mixins (@include)
- Math
- Exending rulesets (@extends)
- Invisible comments

## Sass links

- [Sass](http://sass-lang.com/guide)
- [Compass](http://compass-style.org/)
- [How to structure Sass](http://thesassway.com/beginner/how-to-structure-a-sass-project)
- [Sass functions](http://sass-lang.com/documentation/Sass/Script/Functions.html)

## Other handly links

- [Background noise](http://www.noisli.com/)

## Notes from class

### Intro to Sass (CSS pre-processor)

- We developers want easy-to-read and easy-to-write CSS. The browser still wants plain jane CSS.
- The comprommise is Sass, a simpler way to write CSS, but which compiles into regular CSS.
- Sass is a _superset_ of CSS. That is, it's backwards-compatible, so normal CSS works just fine in a `.scss` file.
- A `.scss` file _(stands for "sassy css")_ converts to a `.css` file.
- Remember, browsers only read the `.css` file. They know nothing of Sass.
- **Rule of thumb:** Don't prematurly optimize. Don't be efficient until there's something that needs to be efficient.

### Prepros (the app)

- [Prepros](http://alphapixels.com/prepros/) is a free application used to compile your Sass to CSS.
- Chosing 'Auto Compile' will automatically compile your `.scss` file into a `.css` file every time you save it.

### Set-up

- Create a `global.scss` file in your repo.
- Drag your directory to the Prepros window. It should find the Sass file and list it in the window.
- Go into Sublime and save your `global.scss` file. This will trigger Prepros to generate `global.css`.
- In your HTML, include a reference to the name of the compiled `.css` file.
- Hit the small globe icon in the lower-left (tooltip says 'Open project live url'). Prepros will set up a lightweight local server (aka "virtual host"). and open your browser to the URL of that local server. It'll b something like `localhost8001`.
- *Remember:* If you edit the CSS file, it will get over-written next time you edit the Sass

### Nested selectors

- psuedo-selectors can be nested inside their parent using `&`, like `&:before`
- Following an element with `&` will append the elements it is nested within in front of it.

### Variables

- A variable stores information that can be re-used throughout your document.
- In .scss, you specify a variable by prefixing its name: `$my-color: #000;`
- The benefit is to allow you a simple way to change one variable, and effect multiple things on your page without having to manually edit each one.
- Another good example is saving border-radius as it's used in multiple places, and requires consistency. `$corner: 12px;`
- To call the variable in your .scss, apply it using
````
p {
	border-radius: $corner;
	background: $my-color;
}
````
- Variables have scope. If a variable is defined outside of all rule-sets, it is global and can be used anywhere on the page. If it is within a rule-set (it is a delcaration of one), it will on exist for the propteries inside of it.

### Compiling all your CSS into one file & Partials

- We do it becuase it allows the server to make just _one_ request to retreive the css, not multiple.
- If you have a .scss filename that is prefixed with an underscore, that is known as a 'partial'
- Partials are designed as stand-alone pieces of styling that can imported into the necessary files
- To include the file _reset.scss you can include it at the top of your compiled CSS using `@import "reset";`
- global.scss typically lists the necessary partials, almost like a table of contents.
- It makes our lives as developers if we have sections/stylings broken out into partials as opposed to having everything on a single page.

### Colors

- You can edit colors or variables using key terms like lighten, darken
- Syntax: `color: lighten($maroon, 50%);`
- You can lighten, darken, desaturate, fade-out
- fade-out will convert a hex into rgba, `fade-out(white, .5)` will yield `rgba(255, 255, 255, .5))`

### Mixins

- Ways to store blocks of rules together.
- Espeically good for blocks of rules with variable value.
- Typically you'd host mixins in their own file, and import that file as a partial.

Example with no variable values:

{% highlight scss linenos %}
    @mixin name {
        -webkit-border-radius: 12px;
           -moz-border-radius: 12px;
             -o-border-radius: 12px;
                border-radius: 12px;
    }

    p {
        @include name(value);
    }
{% endhighlight %}

Example with variable value::

{% highlight scss linenos %}
	@mixin name($variable) {
		-webkit-border-radius: $variable;
		   -moz-border-radius: $variable;
		     -o-border-radius: $variable;
		        border-radius: $variable;
	}

	p {
		@include name(value);
	}
{% endhighlight %}

Example with default value if none is specified:

{% highlight scss linenos %}
	@mixin name($variable: 6px) {
		-webkit-border-radius: $variable;
		   -moz-border-radius: $variable;
		     -o-border-radius: $variable;
		        border-radius: $variable;
	}

	p {
		@include name;
	}
{% endhighlight %}

### Math

- You can use operational math to calculate things in .scss
- eg. (100% / 4)
- e.g. ($default_padding * 2)

### Extends

- @extend .class will pull all the styling from the specified class into where the @extend is declared

### Comments

- Comments that start with `//` disappear when compiled, meaning your users won't see them

### [Compass](http://compass-style.org)
- A library of commonly used mixins for us to reference and use
- Using it for sprites
	- Sprites are having separate images layered onto a single file. Servers only need to take one call to the server to retrieve it. We reposition the sprite through css in order to reveal only the image we want.
	- Compass gives you easy classes to call the images as background-images.
